Hello and welcome to this lecture
on Elements of a Persuasive Speech.
Now by the end of this lecture,
you will be able to use basic
strategies in a persuasive speech.
You'll learn how to appeal to emotion,
logic, and authority in your speech.
And you'll also learn how to
use strategies that appeal, or
sort of use comparisons, degrees,
relationships, circumstances, and
testimonials to support an argument.
And, you'll also learn how to use
inclusive language, such as words like,
us and we.
Okay, so where do we begin?
Well we would begin as usual by
thinking about the purpose and
the audience of your speech.
If you don't know these,
then you'll have a very difficult time
persuading someone to do something.
So purpose, obviously,
you should understand,
what is it that I want my audience to do?
You should define that right off at
the bat, right at the very beginning.
What is it that I want them to do
by the end of this speech, okay?
And then understanding your audience,
obviously,
should allow you to determine what
type of strategy you're going to use
to convince them to do what it
is you want them to do, okay?
So that's the very first thing.
You need to really think about these.
So once you've thought about these things,
you should start to think about things
like, am I going to appeal to logic?
Am I going to appeal to emotion, or
am I going to appeal to authority?
These are three different strategies
that you might want to think about.
Now of course, it becomes very
important that as you do this,
you need to think about
possible fallacies.
For example, if I rely too
much on appealing to emotion,
I might have a lot of problems
with the logic of my argument, and
therefore my argument may
not be very persuasive.
Think about any kind of advertising
that you've seen on TV recently.
Quite often they rely a lot
on emotion to convince you that
the product is a good product.
However, if you start to analyze
the commercial a little bit,
you'll realize that there's not
a lot of logic in their argument.
Quite often,
it's a good idea to use a combination.
You might want to appeal mostly to logic,
but you could bring in emotion and
authority to make your
presentation more persuasive.
So, it's a good idea to
consider using a combination.
And that can then make your argument
a little bit more persuasive,
and you then should just think about
how you might support your argument,
whether through evidence, examples,
data, comparisons, contrasts.
We'll get into a little bit
more about that later, but
that's where you should start thinking
about how you will support the argument.
And then, you want to tell them, well how
will all of this lead up to an action?
What action should you take?
I've convince you that you should do this.
I've shown you why,
now I'd like you to do this, okay.
Let's go back to the audience and purpose
and the things that I mentioned to you.
I talked about appealing to logic.
I talked about appealing to emotion, and
I talked about appealing to authority.
But let me go into a little bit more
detail about what I mean by these
three things.
So let's first look at logic.
What should I consider when
I'm trying to appeal to logic?
Well, obviously you should consider,
do I make sense?
If I'm talking about A, and I'm trying to
get you to move from point A to point B,
is it a logical step?
If this, then that,
is that logical, for example?
So you need to make sure that your
argument has some logical reasoning.
But it's not just that,
you need to be able to support it.
You need to be able to
support it with evidence.
Other support that you might
want to consider is examples or
perhaps data that you might have.
The important thing is you
begin with an argument.
You show the logical connection between
things and how you got to that argument,
and you support that with relevant data
whether it's evidence or examples.
Okay, let's get to emotion.
Now emotion's another common strategy in
trying to persuade
someone to do something.
And usually with emotion, you're trying
to manipulate the audience's emotions.
You're trying to get them to feel
something, happiness or anger or
excitement.
And are you hoping that that will
get them motivated to do something.
And there are different
ways you can do this.
A common way is to tell stories.
You might tell them a story,
a very short story or
depending on the length of your speech,
a long story to get them motivated and
show them the relevance of what
it is that you want them to do.
But you also might want to allude or
draw on their status, right,
show how it will elevate them and
raise their status in something.
Or you might want to
touch on their values and
show that you have a common value
with them or a common belief.
So this is another way of appealing
to emotion in an argument.
And of course sometimes you might
want to use what we call emotive words.
And emotive words are very strong words,
words that carry a lot of emotion.
Quite often they'll be in the form
of adjectives or adverbs, and
they stir, they create a lot
of emotion in your audience.
So, you might rely on this.
Think of a lot of commercials
that you've watched recently.
They'll often rely on strong,
emotive words to convince you that their
product or service matches your values and
your beliefs or your desires.
Okay, the other appeal that I
mentioned was appeal to authority.
Now appeal to authority is where
you show that you have an expert
opinion about something.
And you're trying to impress the audience,
and
you're using this to
support your argument.
And, again, I can talk about commercials.
Sometimes, if you ever watch a commercial,
Colgate, for example,
toothpaste, nine out of ten
dentists recommend Colgate.
Well there it's appealing to authority,
all right?
If I know that nine dentists choose
Colgate, then Colgate must be good.
Of course, as I mentioned before,
you have to be aware of logical fallacies.
Just because nine out of ten dentists
in their commercial recommend Colgate,
doesn't mean that Colgate is good.
So appealing to authority alone might
create a logical fallacy in your argument.
But still, it is a good idea sometimes
to appeal to authority because you
want to show your expertise.
You want to show that you are the expert
and the best person to do what it
is that you want to do, and that's why
sometimes you'll use this as a strategy.
Okay, I want to go back to support and
logical support because sometimes
when you're supporting an argument,
you'll need to rely on certain strategies.
For example, you might want to make
a comparison where you're indicating
the similarities and
differences of a product.
Or maybe you want to talk about
the degree of something and
why one product is better than other.
Or perhaps you want to talk about
the relationship, such as the cause and
effect of investing in a business or
the consequences of failing
to properly brand a product.
And you want to talk
about the circumstances,
such as whether something is possible,
or whether something is impossible.
And finally,
you could also rely on testimonies, so
that could bring up on stories to
support why your decision has worked
in the past in relying on other experts or
other experiences of other people.
All right,
let's actually look at an example now.
In this example, take a moment,
read the example and analyze it.
And think about, well what
approach is this person trying to
use to convince me of their argument?
Are they appealing to authority?
Are they appealing to logic, or
are they appealing to emotion?
Right, so if I analyze this,
I can start to think about,
well the quality of lifespan of
today's smart phone is ridiculous.
Right away, this person is using
a very strong emotive word.
Now I would probably argue that
that might be too strong of a word.
And you might be careful because it has
a very strong negative connotation to it.
But nevertheless, this person's
relying on a emotive word, so
we have appeal to emotion there.
But then they start to appeal
to emotion in a different way,
and that is they're starting
to use an anecdote.
They're using a story to
support their argument.
See, here's my evidence.
Here's a person who has
tried to use the phone and
it stopped working after six months.
There's my evidence.
So it's an anecdotal evidence.
Of course, again, like I said,
you have to be aware of logical fallacies.
An issue when using
anecdotes is sometimes,
just because one person had that
experience doesn't mean the majority.
Can you make that sweeping generalization?
Perhaps, perhaps not,
it really depends on the situation.
In this case,
it could be a one in a million chance.
But then, the person relies on
emotion again using a very short
sentence where they say six months,
all right, six months!,
with an exclamation mark, all right.
Then the person relies on authority,
top experts.
Rigorous, there's an emotive word,
rigorous quality control, okay.
So you can see that this person
is using a combination of
anecdotes appealing to emotions with
emotive words appealing to authority.
But there's not a lot of
substantial evidence that
the xPhone is superior to other phones.
Not yet, we're really relying on emotion,
and we're really
relying on authority to convince
people that our product is better.
Let's look at another example here.
In this example, we are using a lot of
emotive words, like loyal customers.
And also we're relying on things
like families, all right?
Families are coming to our restaurant.
So we're relying on values,
the value of the family.
And we're trying to appeal to
authority a little bit because people
have been coming to our restaurant for
a long time.
Now notice the inclusive language,
and I'll get more to that later.
But using inclusive language, like our,
is quite important, and
we do it later on as well.
But we appeal to authority, quality food,
and a wholesome environment.
Not only is that appealing to authority,
but
it is also appealing to family values.
So, again, here's an argument that we're
using language to be persuasive by
appealing to emotion,
appealing to the audience's family values.
And we're also appealing to authority,
suggesting that our
establishment has quality food.
Now I mentioned the use of
inclusive language, and
that's where you want to consider using
words like we or your or us and you.
You want to take a you
attitude with your audience,
especially if you're trying to
persuade them of doing something.
So words like we, your, your,
and us in these sentences include your
audience in what you're trying to do.
Here's an example of a full sentence, or
two sentences,
that we use inclusive language.
Our company is committed to quality, and
your contributions have
enabled us to grow.
Together, we continue to provide the best
service throughout our Asian community.
Here you can see the words like you.
Now I mentioned the use of
inclusive language, and
that includes using words like we,
your, or us.
And that allows you to create
some sort of environment where
you're including your
audience with your mission or
your action that you want them to do.
No, that's not very good.
Now, I mentioned the use
of inclusive language, and
that includes using words like,
we, your, us, and you.
You want to take a you attitude when
you're trying to persuade someone.
Remember, you're trying to
convince someone of an opinion, or
you're trying to get them
to do some sort of action.
And if you can show how what you're
trying to do is relevant to them,
you might want to use
language that includes them.
So using things that create some sort
of sense of community with you and
your audience or you and your customers,
depending on the context,
that will help make your
persuasive speech more persuasive.
Now, let's look at this example.
Our company is committed to quality, and
your contributions have
enabled us to grow.
Together, we continue to provide the best
service throughout our Asian community.
Notice that we're using words like our and
we,
and this includes the audience
in with your argument.
Okay, so we've talked a lot about
language and appealing to the audience.
Okay, so we've talked a lot about using
basic strategies in a persuasive speech.
And now you should have an idea
of how to appeal to logic and
emotion or
authority to support your argument.
And you should also have an idea that
different ways of supporting your argument
might require you to make comparisons.
It might require you to show contrast and
degrees of differences or
the relationships, or
the circumstances of your action.
Or using testimonials from customers or
experts to support your argument,
and how they can make your
speech more persuasive.
You should also consider how all of this,
a combination of this,
is often the best way to proceed and
not to rely solely on one
strategy like appealing only
to the emotions of audience.
You should probably use a combination.
And you should also consider
using inclusive language.
Take the you attitude,
include your audience in your speech.
You want to engage them.
You want them to think that you're
thinking for their benefit,
especially if you're trying to persuade
them that they should be doing something.
Thank you for watching.